BOOK XIX.
Of Laws In Relations To The Principles Which Form The General Spirit, The Morals, And Customs Of A Nation.
CHAP. I.
Of the Subject of this Book.
This subject is of a great extent. In that crowd of ideas which present themselves to my mind, I shall be more attentive to the order of things, than to the things themselves. I shall be obliged to wander to the right and to the left, that I may search into and discover the truth.
CHAP. II. 
That it is necessary People's Minds should be prepared for the Reception of the best Laws.
Nothing could appear more insupportable to the Germans (*They cut out the tongues of the advocates, and cried, Viper, don't hiss. Tacitus) than the tribunal of Varus. That which Justinian erected amongst the Lazi, to proceed against the murderers of their king, appeared to them as an affair the most horrid and barbarous. Mithridates haranguing against the Romans, reproached them more particularly for their formalities of justice. The Parthians could not bear with one of their kings, who having been educated at Rome, rendered himself affable and easy of access to all. Liberty itself has appeared insupportable to those nations who have not been accustomed to enjoy it. Thus a pure air is sometimes disagreeable to those who have lived in a fenny country.
Balbi, a Venetian, being at Pegu, was introduced to the king. When the monarch was informed that they had no king at Venice, he burst into such a fit of laughter, that he was seized with a cough, and had much ado to speak to his courtiers. What legislator could propose a popular government to people like this?
CHAP. III.
Of Tyranny.
There are two sorts of tyranny ; the one real, which arises from the oppressions of government; the other is seated in opinion, and is sure to be felt whenever those who govern, establish things shocking to the turn of thought, and inconsistent with the ideas of a nation.
Dio tell us, that Augustus was desirous of being called Romulus ; but having been informed, that the people feared, that he would cause himself to be crowned king, he changed his design. The old Romans were averse to a king ; because they could not suffer any man to enjoy such power : these would not have a king, because they could not bear his manners. For though Caesar, the Triumvirs, and Augustus, were really kings, they had preserved all the outward appearance of equality, while their private lives were a kind of contrast to the pomp and luxury of foreign monarchs ; so that when they were resolved to have no king, this only signified that they would preserve their customs, and not take up those of the African and eastern nations.
The same writer informs us, that the Romans were exasperated against Augustus for making certain laws which were too severe : but as soon as he had recalled Plyades the comedian, whom the jarring of different factions had driven out of the city, the discontent ceased. A people of this stamp have a more lively sense of tyranny when a player is banished, than when they are deprived of all their laws.
CHAP. IV.
Of the general Spirit of Mankind.
Men are influenced by various causes, by the climate, the religion, the laws, the maxims of government, by precedents, morals, and customs; from whence is formed a general spirit, which takes its rise from there.
In proportion, as in every nation any one of these causes acts with more force, the others in the same degree become weak. Nature and the climate rule almost alone over the savages ; customs govern the Chinese ; the laws tyrannize in Japan ; morals had formerly all their influence at Sparta ; maxims of government, and the ancient simplicity of manners once prevailed at Rome.
CHAP. V.
How far we should be attentive, lest the general Spirit of a Nation should be changed.
If in any part of the world there had been a nation whose inhabitants were of a sociable temper, open-hearted, pleased with life, possessed of judgment, and a facility in communicating their thoughts ; who were sprightly, agreeable, gay, sometimes imprudent, often indiscreet ; and besides had courage, generosity, frankness and a certain point of honour ; no one ought to endeavour to restrain their manners by laws, unless he would lay a constraint on their virtues. If in general the character is good, the little faults that.may be found in it will be of small importance.
They might lay a restraint upon women, make laws to correct their manners, and to limit their luxury : but who knows but that, by this means, they might lose that peculiar taste which would be the source of the riches of the nation, and that politeness which would render the country frequented by strangers?
It is the business of the legislature to follow the spirit of the nation, when it is not contrary to the principles of government ; for we do nothing so well as when we act with freedom, and follow the bent of our natural genius.
If an air of pedantry be given to a nation that is naturally gay, the state will gain no advantage from it, either at home or abroad. Leave it to do frivolous things in the most serious manner, and with gaiety things the most serious.
CHAP. VI. 
That every Thing ought not to be corrected.
Let them but leave us as we are, said a gentleman of a nation which had a very great resemblance to that we have been describing, and nature will repair whatever is amiss. She has given us a vivacity capable of offending, and hurrying us beyond the bounds of respect : this same vivacity is corrected by the politeness it procures us, inspiring a taste for the world, and, above all, for the conversation of women.
Let them leave us as we are : our indiscretions joined to our good nature, would make the laws which should constrain our sociable temper, not at all proper for us.